
# 1. BASIC CMAKE

## Description
This is the minimum requirement for the cmake to work. A folder that has CMakeLists.txt and the main.cpp files and a build directory where all the builds, Makefile and the executables generated by the cmake are stored. 

## Walk through
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.13)
```
This is the first cmake command that is required for the every project. This lines sets the minimum version of cmake required to compile, and build the project.

```cmake
project(BASCI_CMAKE)
```
This command sets the project name, in this case ***BASIC_CMAKE***. In later commands, the project name can be accesses using the variable as such: 
**${PROJECT_NAME}**

```cmake 
add_executabale(${PROJECT_NAME} main.cpp)
```
This connand adds the executable target with the name provided as the first argument and the second argument is the file that is to be converted to the eecutable. In this case, ***main.cpp*** is to be converted to the executable with the name of the project name itself.

## Running the code 
1. Download the project file.
2. Create a bild directory within the project, if it already exists, delete everython within the build direcotry.
3. Get inside the build directory and run the following command:
```bash
cmake ..
```
4. Run ***make*** command to create execuatable within the build direcotry. An executable file with the name of the project appears in the build directory.
5. Now run the executable with the following command:
```bash
./BASIC_CMAKE
```
6. Congratulation, your first peoject using camke is up and running.
